Welcome back once a secured symmetric communication has been established the server needs to actually
verify to see if the user has the right to access it.
If it wasn't the case then anyone can connect into the server.
You see we've talked about the Diffie Helman key exchange the asymmetric encryption to arrive at a symmetric
key so that we can communicate.
And we also used hashing to make sure of no funny business.
But then the fourth thing is to authenticate a user we want to make sure that whoever is trying to communicate
with us is somebody that we want to communicate with and has the rights to communicate with them.
And that's why if we go back to my terminal we were ask for a password and this is the default behavior.
If I S-sh into anything I will get asked for a password because I want to make sure that you whoops
I want to make sure that you from your computer can't access my Digital Ocean server.
Right.
Like I paid for it.
You can just go into it and do what you want with it.
Take it down and bring down my website.
No I want to make sure that whoever runs this command because you can't run this too and you'll get
asked this exact same password requirement.
But I want to make sure that only I can access it.
And the reason I was able to prevent doing this and automatically signed in was again through S-sh.
So bear with me I'm going to explain what's going on here.
Now there's two ways that we can actually authenticate into a server first and this is what most S-sh
users use is a password.
The user is asked to enter a user name followed by a password.
In this case the user is root and the password while password is something that digital should actually
e-mail me when I first created this droplet or the server.
And because this password is going to be sent after the S-sh connection was made and both my computer
and the server has the symmetric key it's encrypted and safe to send.
And although passwords are encrypted it's still not recommended to use passwords for secure connections
because well you can use they bought and simply brute force and try out a whole bunch of password onto
the server.
And if the password is really bad like one two three.
Well an attacker can easily get gain access to your server.
A better alternative is a second way to get authenticated.
And that's what we're going to talk about in the next few.
It is the main reason we want to set up S-sh with get up and going back to what Bruno asks us to do
initially to set up S-sh with get help.
So finally in a long winded way I'm going to show you the next video the final power of S-sh and how
you can avoid using passwords.
I'll see in the next one Buh-Bye.